NAACL HLT 2016 FIRST CALL FOR PAPERS
The 15th Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies (NAACL HLT 2016)

June 12 to June 17, 2016

San Diego, California, United States

http://naacl.org/naacl-hlt-2016/

NAACL HLT 2016 will feature long papers, short papers, demonstrations, and a student research workshop, as well as associated tutorials and workshops. In addition, some of the presentations at the conference will be of papers accepted for the new Transactions of the ACL journal (http://www.transacl.org/).

The conference invites the submission of long and short papers on substantial, original, and unpublished research in all aspects of automated language processing and creation of  language resources. The short paper format may also be appropriate for a small, focused contribution, a work in progress, a negative result, an opinion piece or an interesting application nugget. 

Topics of interest include, but are not limited to the study of the following language areas, tasks, genres and approaches to language analysis:

Linguistic areas of study

Discourse: anaphora resolution, discourse relation tagging, theories and systems for text organization evaluation, methods for analysis of dialog structure (spoken or written) and discourse semantics
Morphology
Phonology and phonetics 
Pragmatics
Prosody
Semantics: event, lexical, distributional, formal, extra-propositional, grounding and ontologies
Tagging, chunking, syntax and parsing

Application tasks

Dialogue and interactive systems, automatic speech recognition other spoken language processing
Image/video description generation
Language understanding, language generation, summarization, information extraction, question answering, information retrieval, machine translation, recognizing textual entailment and semantic equivalence, relation extraction, text simplification
Mathematical models of language
Predicting speaker/writer characteristics
Sentiment analysis, text categorization (of words, sentences and longer texts), text quality prediction, style analysis and lexicon induction
Spelling and grammar correction and computer-aided learning
Tokenization/word segmentation for Chinese and similar languages and word segmentation in spoken utterances

Research goals

Cognitive modeling and psycholinguistic research
Corpus creation and evaluation 
End-user application building 
Integrate language and other modalities
Linguistic theories for NLP
Machine learning for NLP
Sociolinguistic research

Approaches to language processing tasks

Machine learning: topic modeling, structured prediction, deep learning, bayesian models, kernel methods, generative models, discriminative models, semi-supervised learning, representation learning
Optimization
Exploiting multilingual resources
Modeling linguistic knowledge (e.g., grammars)
Algorithm development for NLP
Corpus/data analysis

Genres

Biological and medical text (BioNLP)
Chat and Email (private unedited written dialog)
Literature
News
Social media: twitter, blogs, discussion forums and other social media
Spoken dialog and other spoken genres
Search log analysis

Languages

Low-Resource Languages
Morphologically rich languages
Other specific living language(s)


IMPORTANT DATES

Deadline for BOTH Long and Short paper submission: Jan 6, 2016
Author response period: Feb 10–15, 2016
Notification to authors: Mar 2, 2016

All deadlines are 11:59PM Pacific Time. Please DO NOT submit the same paper in long and short paper form. 


SUBMISSIONS

LONG PAPERS

NAACL HLT 2016 long paper submissions must describe substantial, original, completed and previously unpublished work. The long paper deadline is January 6, 2016 by 11:59PM Pacific Standard Time (GMT-8). Each submission will be reviewed by at least three program committee members.

Long papers may consist of up to eight (8) pages of content, plus unlimited pages for references. Upon acceptance, final versions of long papers will be given one additional page (up to 9 pages with unlimited pages for references) so that reviewers’ comments can be taken into account.

Papers will be presented orally or as a poster presentation as determined by the program committee. There will be no distinction in the proceedings between long papers presented orally and those presented as poster presentations.

SHORT PAPERS

NAACL HLT 2016 also solicits short papers. Short paper submissions must describe original, completed and previously unpublished work. The short paper deadline this year is also January 6, 2016 by 11:59PM Pacific Standard Time (GMT-8). Types of short papers include:

A small, focused contribution
A negative result
An opinion piece
An interesting application nugget

Short papers may consist of up to four (4) pages of content, plus unlimited pages for references. Upon acceptance, short papers will be given five (5) pages in the proceedings and unlimited pages for references. Authors are encouraged to use this additional page to address reviewers comments in their final versions.

Short papers will be presented in one or more oral or poster sessions. While short papers will be distinguished from long papers in the proceedings, there will be no distinction in the proceedings between short papers presented orally and those presented as poster presentations. Each short paper submission will be reviewed by at least three program committee members.

ELECTRONIC SUBMISSION

Papers should be submitted electronically using the Softconf START conference management system at the following URL:

 https://www.softconf.com/naacl2016/papers

The site will be open for accepting submissions one month before the conference deadline.

MULTIPLE SUBMISSION POLICY

Papers that have been or will be submitted to other meetings or publications must indicate this at submission time. Authors of papers accepted for presentation at NAACL HLT 2016 must notify the program chairs by the camera-ready deadline as to whether the paper will be presented. All accepted papers must be presented at the conference to appear in the proceedings. We will not accept for publication or presentation papers that overlap significantly in content or results with papers that will be (or have been) published elsewhere.

Authors submitting more than one paper to NAACL HLT must ensure that submissions do not overlap significantly (>25%) with each other in content or results. Authors should not submit short and long versions of papers with substantial overlap in their original contributions.

WHAT IS CONSIDERED “UNPUBLISHED WORK”?

All prior peer-reviewed publications, either at a conference or workshop, are considered published prior work. Preprints such as those on arXiv.org and technical reports that are not peer reviewed are not considered prior published work for purposes of submission. Authors must state in the online submission form the name of the workshop or preprint server and title of the non-archival version. The version submitted to NAACL HLT should be suitably anonymized and not contain references to the prior non-archival version. Reviewers will be told: “The author(s) have notified us that there exists a non-archival previous version of this paper with significantly overlapping text. We have approved submission under these circumstances, but to preserve the spirit of blind review, the current submission does not reference the non-archival version.” Reviewers are free to do what they like with this information.


CONTACT
Program Co-Chairs

Ani Nenkova, University of Pennsylvania
Owen Rambow, Columbia University

Email: naacl2016-programchairs@googlegroups.com

General Chair

Kevin Knight, USC Information Science Institute
